So what is Ionic? In the past, this would have been a bit easier to answer because Ionic evolved quite
a bit across the last years
and I'll come back to a brief history and future outlook later in this module.
So assuming that you don't know anything about Ionic, which is fine, this course is for you just as it
is for people who know a little bit about Ionic or have worked with older versions of Ionic,
Ionic in the end is all about having one codebase which is the codebase for a web app and therefore
uses HTML, Javascript and CSS,
so what you would use to build normal user interfaces in the web and you use these tools and these techniques
and these languages which you already know and take some magic to which I will come back in the next
few seconds, added by Ionic to generate web apps, progressive web apps and I'll come back to what this is
in a second too,
iOS and Android apps and if you want, even electron desktop apps. Electron is a certain technology
that allows you to wrap a web app into a desktop app
so to say. So you can build an app for different platforms with one and the same codebase, with minor
adjustments as you will learn in this course but really minor adjustments, not big ones
and that of course is a big selling point.
You can use your existing knowledge and get different apps which allows you to distribute your app on
different channels.
Now regarding that progressive web app part, a progressive web app in the end is a normal web app that
looks and feels a bit like a native mobile app.
It isn't a native mobile app,
you don't
distribute it through the app stores,
it's still a website which you can find why via Google and so on but it's optimized to be reliable
which means it even works offline or parts of it work offline,
it should be fast and give the an user instant feedback upon actions and you also want to have an engaging
app which is able to tap into some native device features, like using the location of the user or the
camera. And with Ionic, you can build such a progressive web app,
you can also build a normal web app which isn't particularly fast or which doesn't tap into native device
features and you can also though get a real native app out of it, so that you can really target the broadest
range of channels possible.
Now let's dive a bit deeper into the Ionic platform then because it's nice that we know that with Ionic
we can build such cross platform apps
but what does this mean,
what really is Ionic,
how does it do that,
what's this magic ingredient
it adds? The Ionic platform as we should call it, is all about Ionic which in its core is a set of web components.
Now web components on the other hand are a technique, a technology supported by modern browsers which allows
you to basically build your own HTML
elements that behind the scenes have more complex logic, something like a tabs component let's say
where the user can toggle between different tabs.
In the past, you could build something like this on your own by writing your own HTML, adding your own
CSS and adding your own Javascript logic, Ionic gives you such a functionality packaged up in
a finished, ready-to-use web component and it has lots of web components you can use. And that is the core
of Ionic, this suite of nicely styled, platform-agnostic and automatically adjusting, so that the automatic
you'll have to look of the platform you're running on web components which can dump into your web project.
So these custom HTML elements could be built by you but with Ionic, you don't have to, you get a finished
suite of such web components.
Now these web components therefore are what you can see on the screen but Ionic and the Ionic ecosystem
is more than just that because Ionic is not just this suite of components, Ionic is also the name of the
company who developed or which developed these components
and this company has more than just these components suite, it also works on a tool named capacitor.
Now capacitor is essentially a tool that is capable of taking your existing web app and wrapping it
into a so-called web view into a native mobile app.
So in the end, it gives you a native mobile app that runs your web app inside of it
but in a way that is indistinguishable for the user to a normal native app because it is a normal native
app, just with a web app included in it
but it looks and feels like a regular mobile app which you build with native mobile controls as you
will see in this course
and that's amazing because this allows you to take your web app and convert it into a mobile app easily.
Now if you're a little bit more experienced in this area. you also might know Cordova which is a similar
tool doing something similar, capacitor is basically a more modern version of that built from the ground
up by the people at Ionic who have a lot of experience with that, who used Cordova in the past but now
have their own solution which we'll also use in this course which is super fast, super easy-to-use and
makes it really easy to build native mobile apps.
So this is the part that allows us to use our web app and run it on a native device as a native mobile
app and not just as a website opened in the browser.
Now last but not least, the Ionic platform, so the set of tools we use from the Ionic ecosystem also has
the Ionic CLI which stands for command line interface, which can work with other CLIs, like in this course
the Angular CLI which it will use behind the scenes, which helps us create Ionic projects, manage them,
use capacitor to convert our web app into a mobile app,
so basically which helps us with the entire build workflow, that is the last important part from the Ionic
world we'll be using. This makes developing simply easier, faster and allows us to finally build and package
our app up. Now this is the Ionic platform, these are the tools you will learn about in this course in detail and
this is just a big picture here obviously
and this is what Ionic gives us to build amazing web apps which can work and run as web apps but then
they look like native mobile apps already, thanks to these nice
Ionic web components which by the way are also not just about the looks but also have a
lot of rich functionality included in them, like this tab functionality I mentioned earlier but then
Ionic doesn't stop there, doesn't stop at that web user interface, it then also gives you the tool to
build that in an easy way and to then also convert it into mobile apps or even desktop apps if you want
to. This is the Ionic platform in its core, there also are certain premium and cloud services offered
by Ionic, for some of them you have to pay, others are free,
I won't dive too much into them in this course but I want to mention nonetheless, these services allow
you to build your app in the cloud,
for example if you want to build an iOS app on Windows,
this would be possible with the services and they also have other services for easier development
or previewing and you can find all of that on their official web page which I'll also show you in a
second.
But this is Ionic in its core.